Alright! In this video we are going to go in and work on number 56 and that's the ability to add and update
a Pet to our Pet Clinic.
Very important if we're going to have a Pet Clinic we should have pets in the system.
So that's what we're going to do is add that functionality now.
So I've gone in and I've added a couple of things here.
I set up some tests.
So before I do that, found one thing PetType. I implemented the Builder pattern so I didn't have this
constructor here.
I wasn't able to use the id property so now I created a constructor for the id and name so and this
is Project Lombok so I remove the Builder from the class level annotation and put it on the constructor
and set up a constructor because we're extending out that BaseEntity.
And I want to build use the Builder pattern with this as well so I was a little refactoring and I am
going to commit this
I'm just showing you a way of doing small incremental commits.
I'm just going to commit this guy now and then the next thing.
I also added in some views. We have two views for the pet form.
So we have the pet form and the visit form. We're not going to use a visit form at this time but I'm going
to go ahead and add these into Git as well. So we commit that.
Now again I'm just referencing the ticket that I'm working on. Now so that shows up in the commits. Commit
that. So we close that.
And now let's take a look at the test.
Now I'm looking at setting up the PetController to do all this.
And again we want to be able to create a pet and update a pet.
So I'm following that the Spring pattern here to create a pet.
We have a initializer which is going to return back an empty object to our Model so that displays the
form properly and the bind variables and whatnot and then that form will get posted and then we need
a controller method to handle that post and then the same for the update.
So the update is going to provide a populated Pet object back to the Model and then we need to accept
that Pet object back and save that.
So a couple of things that we need to do there and we need to implement this. I'm going to go ahead
and run the test and we'll see that they are failing because we have not implemented these methods.
And I got stubs so we've got some that are passing but they're just stubs to implement.
But let's go ahead and work on the add pet method.
I'm going to come over here to Pet Clinic and I am going to seamlessly steal from what they did there.
Let's take the code for the creating a new pet and we'll take that to our PetController.
And we'll go ahead and add that and then modify it as we need to.
I'm just go into doing the imports here.
A couple of things that we need to implement and see here.
I have Owner and I'm going to be consistent and just use Model
so they added a utility function to add a pet.
And in this case I'm not going to be utilizing that.
I'm just refactoring to use the model and add an attribute that addresses that.
And again here we have owner.
So you can see here that I don't have that get pet.
Let's take a look at that.
See what they've added here.
BaseEntity
Here we have getPets.
So we'll go ahead and implement this to our model as well.
So there's a convenient method. I'm going to go ahead and add that
and
It's an old code here.
So
It should work.
I'm just kind of changing this on the fly here so shamelessly stealing from them to duplicate their
functionality.
Now we have our getPet
And now we just need
So again I'm just going through in implementing that.
So now we have our pets new that's going to handle the form.
So we're going to return back the Owner.
So that's working.
That is double checking what's going on here making sure everything's at work right so let's run our
tests and hopefully two of them drop off.
Neither one was happy.
So
Ok so getPets owner
should not be null
ok what's happening is the builder passed in a null
so I do initialize it to a HashSet
But that is passing in a null value to the pet.
So what I'm going to do here is
so if our Builder pattern doesn't pass in something, that's not going to get overridden so that came
in as a null so let's try this again
So the creation worked.
but process did not work.
I have a problem in the tests that I wrote. There should be a redirect
where we run our failing tests
ownerId
Let's take a look at that PetController.
Yeah no should be that.
There we go. So now are we in the code for the new form.
And now let's handle the update and we'll come back over here to Pet Clinic and steal more of their code.
So we'll come to this,
petId petId so we can actually get rid of this.
So
I'm going to refactor this because we really don't need that pet object. We can just do that.
Get rid of that all together. Clean that up a little bit.
I'm going to be consistent and just use Model.
And that's addAttribute.
I can see different generations of Spring in some of this code here.
And Pet, BindingResult,
Model. We can make that model.
That looks OK and then owner.
And see it they named their PetService pets.
I think that's confusing.
So let's come in here and say our petService.
I think that's a little bit cleaner.
And then again this is going to be owners plus owner dot getId().
Let's go ahead and run and run the failing test again.
Both are unhappy still.
For 404 so
take a look at that test. That should be
owners ownerId.
pets pets
pets petId.
So that's my mistake there.
I'm going to call petId 2
and also here in this we are going to have to mock out the petService as well on our test. We minimize
this and let's split this.
We're having the same problem there with the pet builder.
Oh here
should be think.
So let's take a look at the Pet and we can see that we have to build around that.
But it extends out the BaseEntity
so let's come in here, add a constructor
like so. We'll get rid of the Builder.
Here we'll add the Builder.
like so. So that sets up our Builder pattern and now that is there.
So that property gets added.
And that's the update form and
controller and the petService will get saved there so here. So the process of update does save.
And this should be a redirect as well.
Now let's go ahead and run our test.
Ok.
You can see all the tests are passing.
Let's make sure that everything is passing and we have to run all tests.
Ok everything's in the green. Let's start up pet clinic and test out the application.
So we're up and running.
Let's go over to Chrome.
It's working.
Find owners. I get Michael. Let's add in new pet and kaboom. So let's take a look at that.
So here we're getting invalid type model Pet. Let's take a look at Pet. And I bet it's because I named
it petType.
So let's go and fix that form.
Trying to find the line number.
It's not that big. We'll be able to find it here.
Looking for the line number where this popped up.
So rebuilding the project here.
There you go. Let's try this again.
Owner null null
Another 500 error. This video is getting a little long.
I going to log these errors and address this in a different video so
yeah
So we got a couple of problems here. so I am going to log in the error.
So let's go ahead and commit this right now. We're going to call this done.
So I'm going to say that we added the ability. I'm going to close out this video
and that's where will say that was number 56
and I'll say push that as well.
I could see I have three commits against this.
And then the last one actually closes it. So I'm
going to go ahead and do that.
And when I gets up there will toggle over to get
see that I want to close.
Now we can see that all the commit activity against this ticket.
Let's come over here.
New issue
and we will label that as a bug because that is not working.
And we will submit that.
So we can see that we do have a bug there and we will address that in the next video. We'll figure out
what's going on there.